In Spring Framework, both the @Repository and @Service annotations are used to define the roles and responsibilities of different types of classes within the application. 
These annotations are part of the Spring component scanning mechanism and are used to create Spring beans and manage them within the application context. 
While they are often used interchangeably, there is a subtle difference in their intended usage and the semantic meaning they convey:

@Repository Annotation:
The @Repository annotation is typically used to annotate classes that are responsible for data access operations. 
This includes interaction with databases, storage, and other data sources. 
It's used to indicate that a class is acting as a data repository and is responsible for encapsulating data access logic. 
This annotation also enables automatic translation of persistence-specific exceptions into Spring's DataAccessException hierarchy.
Example:

@Repository
public class UserRepository {
    // Data access methods and logic
}

@Service Annotation:
The @Service annotation is used to annotate classes that provide some form of business logic or service. 
These classes encapsulate business-related functionality and often serve as intermediaries between controllers and repositories. 
The use of @Service helps to distinguish these classes from other components and adds a semantic meaning of being a service or business-related component.
Example:

@Service
public class UserService {
    // Business logic methods and interactions with repositories
}

In summary, while both @Repository and @Service annotations are used to define Spring beans and manage them within the application context, 
the key distinction lies in their roles and responsibilities:

@Repository is used for data access components, indicating that the class is responsible for interacting with data sources.
@Service is used for business logic components, indicating that the class provides services or business-related functionality.

It's important to note that while these annotations carry specific semantic meanings and are helpful for better code organization, 
they do not have any functional impact on the behavior of the classes they annotate. 
The choice of which annotation to use depends on how you want to communicate the purpose of the class in your application's architecture.